docs: guide documentation for the node (#167)
RequestNetwork/requestNetwork: packages/docs/docs/guides/6-hosting-a-node/0-intro.md

---

title: Introduction to Request Node hosting
keywords: [Request node]
---# Introduction

Now you should be comfortable with features of the Request network.

In this guide we will explain what is the Request Node and help you to run your own.

## What is the Request Node?

Request Nodes are servers that run the lower layers of the Request protocol. They connect to the Ethereum and IPFS networks, to store and retrieve request transactions. Protocol users can interact with the Request Node through HTTP using the [request-client.js](../5-request-client/0-intro) library.

## Why run your own Node?

Running the Node locally on your machine will allow you to test your code using the Request Client easilly.

You may also want to host your Node in a server. Hosting your Node is the most decentralized setup possible. It allows you to:

> - Store your own data and make sure it is safelly backed up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Store your own data and make sure it is safely backed up
```

- Be technically independent: own your servers and control how you manage them
- Use custom configuration settings

> - Customize storage options

Reviewer 2: Hmm... the same as above ?

> - Customize storage options

Author: ```suggestion
```

## How to run your Node?

> There are 3 currently supported ways to run the Request Node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are currently three supported ways to run a Request Node:
```

> - Run from [**Docker**](./1-docker). Probably the easiest way to run the Request Node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Run from [**Docker**](./1-docker). The easiest way to run the Request Node.
```

> - Run the [**code**](./2-code) from the git repository. Especially useful if you are making changes to the protocol layers.

Reviewer 2: `Especially useful if you are making changes to the protocol layers.`
The easiest way to test fast the changes we made is to use docker compose but I don't know which session it should be because we use Docker but in the same way, we run the node from the git repository

> - Use our kubernetes **helm** charts. The best solution if you want to host your node on a Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: Maybe also the best solution to run it on a cloud provider. But maybe this assumption is wrong

On the next pages, you can find out detailed steps on how to run each one of these.

## Prerequisites

> Request uses IPFS and Ethereum as the storage for our protocol data. For this reason the Node needs connections to an Ethereum node and an IPFS node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Request uses IPFS and Ethereum to store request transactions. For this reason the Node needs connections to an Ethereum node and an IPFS node.
```

`protocol data` sounds a bit weird to me

### Ethereum node

You can use any HTTP/S Ethereum node to run your Request Node.

> For local development, you can use ganache (explained in more details on the following pages).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For local development, you can use ganache-cli, a local Ethereum RPC client for tests (explained in more details on the following pages).
```

> An easy way to get going with Ethereum Mainnet or Rinkeby is to use services like infura, that will expose an Ethereum Node API for you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An easy way to get going with Ethereum Mainnet or Rinkeby is to use services like Infura, that will expose an Ethereum Node API for you.
```

### IPFS Node

> Request uses a dedicated IPFS network. This means that you need to have an IPFS Node with our network settings connected to your Request Node.

Reviewer: "with our network settings" does not seem very clear to me 
Maybe : an IPFS node that can access other nodes of the network, and can be accessed by them? 
(Not great either...)

> Request uses a dedicated IPFS network. This means that you need to have an IPFS Node with our network settings connected to your Request Node.

Reviewer 2: Don't we explain what is a dedicated IPFS network somewhere ? We should leave a link for the user since this is quite a advanced notion.

Maybe use this link ? https://medium.com/pinata/dedicated-ipfs-networks-c692d53f938d

> The good news is it's easy to set up our IPFS and we will show it to you on our next steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The good news is it's easy to set up our IPFS Node and we will show it to you on our next steps.
```
